In this video I'll demonstrate fault tolerance.
So here we see a virtual machine and let's assume that this is a really critical VM.
This is a VM that we can't tolerate even the slightest amount of downtime.
So I want to enable fault tolerance on this virtual machine and fault tolerance is going to give me
that 100 percent uptime solution.
But before we can do that we need to go to our ESX I hosts and make sure that we've done some of the
prep work that's required for fault tolerance.
So I'm going to go to a VM kernel port on my first host and I'm going to go ahead and enable fault tolerance
logging my VM kernel port.
Now just bear in mind this is my lab environment right so I'm doing the motion management and the fault
tolerance all on the same VM kernel port.
In real life you might not want to do this especially fault tolerance logging because this can generate
a lot of traffic.
Right.
So in my lab This is fine.
Putting all these different types of traffic on the same VM kernel ports is just fine.
But in real life it might not actually want to do that.
OK so let's go ahead and write this VM motion demo fault tolerance is different than high availability
or DRAM or things like that because we're going to enable it on a virtual machine by virtual machine
basis.
Right re-enabling one VM at a time.
So I'm going to turn on fault tolerance for this really critical VM and I'm going to pick the data store
for my secondary VM desks and configuration files so right now this Wii motion demo VM is stored on
the shared data store.
So in this case I'm going to go ahead and put my secondary VM disks right on the shared data store.
Now this exposes me a little bit because now I'm putting the disks for my primary VM and my secondary
VM on the same data store.
So if that storage device were to ever fail I'm going to have a problem there and I could potentially
lose all of the data associated with that VM.
So if I were to have maybe a second shared data store that would be awesome because then I could go
ahead and place my secondary VM disks and configuration files on a completely different data store on
a completely different storage array and I'd have that even higher level of protection.
My lab I only have one storage device so I'm going to go ahead and pick the shared data store and then
I'll pick a host that the secondary VM can reside on.
And it's telling me down here you know I'm using the same data store for both the primary and secondary
VMT case obviously.
I just explained why that's not ideal.
So in real life try to split up those VM disks across different physical storage systems
and that's really it.
So I've turned on fault tolerance on this Wii motion demo virtual machine.
And so what is going to do is it's actually going to spin up a secondary VM on this second host the
1 9 2 1 6 8 1 9 9 1 2 3.
And the process might take a little time because it's got to create a copy of those virtual disks.
But in this scenario I've got a really small VM and so it's not going to take very long in this environment.
So you can see here we've got fault tolerance turned on.
We've got a secondary VM started on my second host and if I go back to my first post and I look at the
VMA there I've got my primary VM on that host.
So let's go ahead and test this out.
I have got my primary VM on this first host.
I'm going to go ahead take that host and shut it down.
And I'm not going to put it in maintenance mode.
And what we should see is that the secondary VM should take over as primary as soon as that host start
shutting down.
And we should have zero downtime on this virtual machine.
OK.
So now my Wii motion demo VM is down.
It's disconnected.
The secondary should take over as primary and you can see there is an alert associated with this VM.
So let's go ahead and take a look but you'll notice the secondary did immediately take over as primary.
And if I monitor this VM we can take a look at the events that have occurred and we can see the fault
tolerant state changed on the virtual machine.
So let's give ourselves a little bit more room to work with here by unpinning some of these tabs that
I really don't need.
Yeah.
So the fault tolerance state changed from green to red.
You can see that one of our posts was disconnected and that the VM failed over failed over from the
first host of the second host.
So we can see that our virtual machine has actually successfully started up though it's running on the
second host.
So that's the goal of fault tolerance.
So now what happens when I restore that first host.
What's going to happen when I restore that first host.
Well with fault tolerance it won't fail back.
It's not going to fail back to the original host.
So this secondary VM that's now running on my other ESX I host 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 9 and 1 0 3 that is now
my primary and it's going to stay the primary unless some other sort of failure occurs.